The article I chose was about Q Industries. Q Industries designs AI systems to identify threats and use non-lethal measures to neutralize the threat. The company recently agreed to work with some governments on projects to expand their applications to include lethal measures. In response, engineers working for the company, who had already spoken out about ethical concerns in the past, quit in protest. The company then sued the engineers for violating their NDA. The specific ethical issue I'll focus on is decision for the engineers to quit in protest - since the study only says they were going to speak up, but was not clear about if they did, we will not talk about the whistle blowing, but instead just the decision to quit.

Deontology:
Deontology focuses on duty. One could say the employees have a duty to employer and duty to public. As people are central in deontology, duty to employer can only exist if the employer has a duty to all human beings (i.e. the public). It was the employees' perception that the company was not doing their duty to the public, therefore deciding to quit was a duty to the public. This decision is conclusively ethical.

Virtue Ethics: 
We can use the 9 virtues Aristotle proposed to look at this case. The virtues of righteous indignation and courage seem to be relevant here. If the employees perceived the acts of the company to not be ethical, then their reaction is virtuous. However, if we take loyalty and deference to be the primary virtues then it would be unethical. The decision under virtue ethics in inconclusive.

Utilitarianism: 
For utilitarianism we must look at the consequence of quitting. One consequence is that the employees' livelihood and reputation are jeopardized.  Additionally, the company reputation harmed, which can have negative consequences for the other employees and those that could benefit from the company's other work. However, the engineers quitting draws attention to something potentially harmful and forces company put in more care and consideration to how the tech could impact innocent people. Now, let us look at the consequences of the employees staying. If they stay, they don't draw attention to something the company is doing that could be harmful overall. The conclusiveness depends on how we weight the risks that could occur and how far into the future we look. The immediate consequence of the action seems unethical because you are doing more harm than good. However, if the future risk is high enough, then in the long-term it could be ethical for them to quit in protest
	
The most appealing framework to me is utilitarianism as it allows for a way to navigate potential conflicts - e.g. the case when lying will actually lead to good. However, I am not optimistic there is a way to look at the outcome of actions in a way that is measurable and agreeable by most reasonable people. My least favorite is virtue ethics as one can pick virtues and make a case that their behavior is ethical. That is to say, one can claim any "virtue" that supports unethical actions.
